Chapter	2	Broad product category (e.g., 62 = Apparel)
Heading	4	Product type (e.g., 6201 = Overcoats, car coats, ski jackets etc.)
Subheading	6	Material or function (e.g., 6201.93 = Synthetic fibers)
Tariff Line Code	10	U.S.-specific classification for duty calculation (e.g., 6201.93.3011)
The last 4 digits - First National sub-heading, specfic product - overcoats. The last two digits are statistical - Mens overcoats

There are different methods by which the assessment is calculated. 
if an item is ordered there could be specific rate for the number of eaches orders then another ad valorem rate that could
applicable to number of eaches ordered and then 
there is another component i.e. value that value*secondary (or advalorem rate). suppose $1000. 1000*secondary rate

The secondary rate is taken as the proportion to the value of product ordered. A certain percentage of the values is designated
to be the ad valorem percentage. This is applicable for certain type of good. if $1000 worth of product is arrving a x% percetange 
of duty levied on the value of the product. 

The cost component is created and assigned one ID, that ID is associated to HTS code. The ID also holds the calculation method
if its specific rate, ad valorem rate or compound i.e. the sum of both.

Three different methods of calculation : 
1) Specific
2) Advalorem value
3) compound 

Country of source vs manufacture- First determine what is the country of origin - This could be country of manufacturing or country of sourcing. 
Existing Item updates Yes or No
Existing order updates Yes or No
New cost components must be inserted in config table for any additional fee that incurred in this update. 

# HTS load into system
    HTS
    HTS Definition
    HTS Tariff
    HTS Tariff exclusion
    HTS Tariff zone (if HTS rates are at zone level)
    HTS charges
    HTS charges zone (if HTS rates are at zone level)
    HTS Tax
    HTS Tax zone (if HTS rates are at zone level)

HTS codes during load coud come with Add, update, delete. In order to update latest, the file is loaded into the system

HTS application on product
  hts-product
  hts-product-chares
HTS application on Purchase order
  hts-po
  hts-po-charges
  charge splits and track under transaction code
  Map transaction code to stock ledger and general ledger

clearing zones
This setup is need for the country that use clearing zones concept. Clearing zone are port of entry of importing country and rates, fee, tax could vary depending 
on the port good entered. The United states doesn't have this concept, same charges, tax, fee are applicables whether goods enter through california or New York. 
However several other country for example Mexico has different charges, rates, taxes based on which port of authority goods entered. 
Example:-
HTS 1201.00.0000 has a Border Zone duty rate of 5%
HTS 1201.00.0000 has a Interior Zone duty rate of 20%

HTS Tariff :-
charges applicable : Duty, Tax & Fee
Duty : DTYUS = DTY4AUS + DTY4BUS

Tax and fees are also calculated in the same manner and stores in another set to tables. 
These three components combined together make the estimated cost. 

HTS addtion on product
The HTS treatments defined in the system are added to applicable products. 

HTS addtion on Purchase orders
When Items are added to the PO, The item should carry their HTS (if elgible) and falls under PO written date and delivery date. 

Total product cost = Base cost + freight + Tariff + Other Insurance + commission => Landed cost.
Examples :-
The ERP calculates:
    Base cost: $10
    Tariff: $2.77
    Freight: $1.50
    Insurance & Commission: $1.00
    Landed cost: $15.27

Gross margin target: 60% → Retail price ~ $40.00
Price is uploaded into POS and ecommerce systems.

The base cost, tariff, freight, insurance, commission and any other applicable charges are categorized into a separate 
transaction code for stock ledger records and General ledger for financial review and public reporting.

Procurement Flow:-
1. To initiate the financial transaction, the importer applies for a Letter of Credit (L/C) from their financial institution, known as the issuing bank. 
2. Upon approval, the issuing bank prepares the L/C and forwards it to the exporter’s bank, which serves as the advising or confirming bank.
3. importer verifies the shipment and commercial documents, and submits them to freight forwarder
4. Goods are shipped, exporter’s bank sends the corresponding documents to the importer’s bank for verification.
5. Issuing bank debit's importer bank account. 
6. Releases the paper to importer to claim the goods. 


Actual Landed Cost: Merchandise Cost + Freight + Duty + Insurance + Commission + Other Fees 
where:
Merchandise Cost is the cost of product that supplier charges to the vendor.
Freight is the cost of freight carrier charges for bringing products from Supplier to retailer’s door. 
Duty is charged at the port based on product HTS qualification.
Insurance & Commission is paid depending on negotiation terms between supplier and retailer.
Other fees include several other charges,storage,handling,banking,agents,broker etc.








